# data-modeling-with-postgreSQL

The README file you attached is empty hence please add the details of the project to the README. You can talk about the database and schema design (Fact and Dimension Tables), ETL process, CONFLICT statements if any etc. You can also add screenshots of the final table if you need to add more information to the README.
Additionally, you can also talk about how to run the python scripts and what each file represents in the repository.


## Introduction
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. Your role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## How to run the python script
- open up your terminal
- run python create_tables.py
- run python etl.py

## Datasets

### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. 

### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month.

## Data Schema
a star schema was created with the following tables

### Fact Table
- songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
- songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### Dimension Tables
- users - users in the app
- user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
- songs - songs in music database
- song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
- artists - artists in music database
- artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
- time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
- start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday



